# BIOMD0000000284: hofmeyer

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000284.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000284.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This model is the reaction sequence SEQFB, a model pathway of a branched
system with sequential feedback interactions found in bacterial amino acid
synthesis. Its steady state is presented in Fig 4.

The model is described in:  
**METAMOD: software for steady-state modelling and control analysis of metabolic pathways on the BBC microcomputer.**   
JHS Hofmeyr and KJ van der Merwe, _Comput Appl Biosci_ 1986 2:243-9; PubmedID:
[3450367](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3450367)  
Abstract:  
METAMOD, a BBC microcomputer-based software package for steady-state modelling
and control analysis of model metabolic pathways, is described, The package
consists of two programs. METADEF allows the user to define the pathway in
terms of reactions, rate equations and initial concentrations of metabolites.
METACAL uses one of two algorithms to calculate the steady-state
concentrations and fluxes. One algorithm uses the current ratio of production
and consumption rates of variable metabolites to adjust iteratively their
concentrations in such a way that they converge towards the steady state. The
other algorithm solves the roots of the system equations by means of a quasi-
Newtonian procedure. Control analysis allows the calculation of elasticity,
control and response coefficients, by means of finite difference
approximation. METAMOD is interactive and easy to use, and suitable for
teaching and research purposes.

  

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

  

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Novere N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


